

VIMALESH BABU K M				F5, Vijay Apartments,
Male 29 years 								Narmadha Nagar, Ullagaram
kmvimalesh@gmail.com                                                                           	Chennai -600091, Tamil Nadu	
Mobile #: 09884901707


OBJECTIVE

An accomplished web application developer with zeal to work in a competitive environment where innovation, education and sense of ownership are valued and encouraged. Extensive background in full life-cycle of software development process including requirements gathering, design, coding, testing, debugging and maintenance. Proven track record of designing and implementing flexible solutions which support frequent UI and functionality changes.

    
TECHNICAL HIGHLIGHTS

Platforms: UNIX/Solaris, Windows
Languages: Java/J2EE (JSP, Servlets, EJB, RMI, JAXB, JMS, JDBC), C, VXML, ExtJs
Scripting: UNIX Shell
Databases: Oracle, Sybase, DB2
Tools: RAD, TOAD, RPM, IBM Support Assistant, NetBeans


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE                                                                        7 Years and 9 Months
      

July 2006	IBM India Private Limited					Bangalore, Chennai		
       To		Application Programmer
May 2010
Recruited as a campus hire and joined a team of 10 members to deliver enhancement projects for a primitive J2EE application. Acquired in-depth knowledge on web applications and notably worked for plugging in a .NET oriented application to the existing architecture by converting it as Java/J2EE application. With the gained experience from my first assignment successfully migrated two applications for a team in Chennai.
With aspirations to learn and work in an advanced J2EE application moved to a new team in Chennai. Turned around the prospects of an underperforming team by taking up new roles and responsibilities that included Module lead, Quality co-ordinator, Function point analyst, Build and deployment Engineer. Needed to interact with clients for better implementation of functionalities, Project demos and solving critical production issues.

Client: 	American Telegraph and Telephone company (AT&T).

Key Achievements:

	Delivered 10 projects of major complexity in less than a span of 4 years.
	Key contributor in all the projects with proven ability of solving major design issues through analytical skills.
	Migrated two applications from onsite to offshore within a span of 6 months.
	Introduced lot of best practices that added value to the projects and gained good reputation from the client.
	Got lot of tower level spot awards for excellence in delivery.





June 2010	Verizon Data Service Private Limited					Chennai		
       To		Analyst
 May 2014
Joined a team of 5 members in IVR application built using J2EE and VXML. Gained basic knowledge on VXML. Gave valuable suggestions like migrating configuration parameters to database, unit testing the OSDM, creating test tools for the interface applications
In addition to my primary responsibility I involved in tracking metrics using the logs to improve customer experience, hand-offs and misdirects.
Moved to Verizon wireless ACSS team to learn trending web technologies and to keep my skill set upto date with the market expectations

Client: 	Verizon Wireline and Verizon Wireless

Key Achievements:

	Implementation of Technician call through functionality where in the voice portal allows the technician to call the customer back to confirm the appointment.
	Implementation of Quick code functionality which facilitates to decrease the in-call time and increase the self-service efficiency.
	Introduced SMS functionality for the technician in the voice portal.
	Worked in migrating the application OS and server migration.
	Delivered 6 projects for ACSS in a span of 8 months.


TECHNICAL EXPERTISE											
	
	Over 6 years of experience in Object oriented programming.
	Extensive experience with HTML, JavaScript and DOM to design interactive web user interfaces.
	Proficient in Servlets, JSPs, JDBC with sound knowledge on Struts framework.
	Strong debugging skills with hands on experience in solving JVM heap dumps.
	Developed a framework for MVC2 architecture to support i-planet web server.
	Hands on experience in EJBs, JMS and Toplink framework.
	Good knowledge on SQL and hands on experience in JOINS, Procedures, Views, Materialized views, DBlinks.
	Attended training in WAS 6.0 administration and basic knowledge on server clustering and administration.
	Introduced the use of new technologies like AJAX in the application to provide rich user interface.
	Hands on experience in JAXB, basic web service and VXML.


EDUCATION                                                                                                                                                                     

Bachelor of Technology, Electronics and Communication 				May 2006
National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli 		CGPA: 7.69

Higher Secondary Certificate 								March 2002
S.P.V.M Hr.Sec.School, State Board of Tamil Nadu 		Percentage: 95.25

Matriculation Certificate 								April 2000
S.P.V.M Hr.Sec.School, Matriculation Board 			Percentage: 90.33










PERSONAL DETAILS
  
  Father’s Name          : Mr. Mukunthan K.S

  Date of Birth             : 25th February 1985

  Nationality                : INDIAN

  Languages Known    : ENGLISH, HINDI, TAMIL and SOURASTRA
  
  Marital Status           : Single.

  Passport Number      : F7390146 valid up to 29/03/2016


PROJECTS EXECUTED


1. 	Project Name: Automated Customer Support System(ACSS)
Client	Verizon Wireless
Duration	April 2013 – Present
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java, J2EE ,XML, ExtJS 4.2
Secondary skills: IBM Extreme Scale
Framework : Spring
Tools: RAD , AccuRev
Projects executed	2
Description :
ACSS is a 24X7 customer care applications. It is used by around 40K Verizon Wireless Customer Care representative to resolve the queries and execute service change transaction of the end customer in around 45 VZW call centers and 42 outsource vendor centers.
It mainly aims 
•	Reduced AHT for on-line teams
•	Increased throughput for off-line teams
•	Reduced training time
•	Mobilization
Roles and Responsibilities :
	Interacting with Business Analyst to understand and analyze the feasibility of the requirements.
	Developing and enhancing the Web components using ExtJS
	Execute unit test cases and prepare test reports.
	Preparing Technical Design Document and turn over packages.


2. 	Project Name: NNOS Voice Portal
Client	Verizon Communications Inc.
Duration	June 2010 – April 2013
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java, J2EE , VXML
Secondary skills: DB2, PL/SQL.
Framework : SVF
Tools: Eclipse, Clearcase, TFS
O/S: Solaris 5.10, Linux 2.6 
Enhancements done	6
Description :
The NNOS Voice Portal contains a suite of applications that are geared towards providing self-service assistance through the use of speech recognition voice response units (SVRU) to help ease demand on call center representatives, and also to decrease hold times for callers. The applications contain voice portals to assist both retail customers and Verizon field technicians. The following are the voice portal applications in the NNOS portfolio.
•	Converged Tech Voice Portal
•	Converged Order Voice Portal
•	APC (Assignment Provisioning Center)
Roles and Responsibilities :
	Reviewing and analyzing the UI specification and functionalities.
	Coding of complex modules and solving Unit testing and Integration testing defects.
	Reviewing the OSDM grammars, doing code review, preparing deployment task plans.
	Creating deployment package using RPM and supporting deployment and sanity check in production.


3. 	Project Name: MIC
Client	AT&T, U.S.A
Duration	June ’08 – May ‘10
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java,J2EE ,EJB
Secondary skills : Oracle, Javascript ,PL/SQL, Shell Scripting ,JMS
Framework : Struts, Toplink 
Tools: RAD, TOAD, CVS
O/s: AIX
Enhancements done	9
Description :
Mechanized Inventory Creation (MIC) is a 13-state initiative that mechanizes many of the manual project processes that exist in Outside Plant.  
•	Increases productivity
•	Decreases errors
•	Eliminate manual hand-offs
•	Allows selection of standard loop electronics equipment
•	Allows for standard equipment configuration
Standardize regional procedures, forms, naming conventions, manual processes and methods used to update the provisioning systems.
Roles and Responsibilities :

	Responsible for analyzing the existing system and the feasibility of incorporating the new functionality in the existing system.
	Translate customer requirements into formal requirements and design documents, establish specific solutions and leading the effort including programming and testing that culminate in client acceptance of the results.
	Co-ordinate with Interfacing applications and solve interfacing issues.
	Deployment and Build Coordinator: Leading the team activities during the transition of project from one phase to other, installing the software and promoting the database schema changes from one environment to the other. 
	Ensure process adherence throughout the life cycle of the project.
	Analyzing the project using Function Point methodology which in turn justify the team‘s productivity.

4. 	Project Name: CpEasy
Client	AT&T, U.S.A
Duration	Jan ’08 – June ‘08
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java, J2EE.
Secondary skills: Oracle, PL/SQL.
Framework : Struts
Tools: MyEclipse, TOAD, CVS
O/s: Windows server 2003
Enhancements done	N.A (Migration project)
Description :
CpEasy is Customer Premise Equipment Easy Business. ATT offers a standard array of Customer Premise Equipment (CPE) such as phones, headsets, adjuncts, fax machines and other types of equipments for consumer and business needs across the enterprise. CpEasy application is used by business service representatives in the ATT West region to order telephone equipment for the small and medium business market segments.

Roles and Responsibilities :
	Preparation of Application Information document, Application specific project plan code flow document for all the modules.
	Doing Base Function Point count for the application.
	Setting up the working development environment.
	Presenting periodically demo of the application after every stage of migration to the clients.


5. 	Project Name: SERG
Client	AT&T, U.S.A
Duration	Jan ’08 – June ‘08
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java, J2EE.
Secondary skills: Oracle, PL/SQL.
Tools: MyEclipse, TOAD, CVS
O/s: AIX
Enhancements done	1 and Migration.
Description :
The Service Order Report Generator/Service Order Error Monitoring will provide the user with an easy to use interface to existing service order error reports. Allows access to legacy system error reports through a user friendly web-based user interface. The purpose of SERG system to solve the following Business Problems. 
•	Eliminates the need to login to 16 different legacy systems to run error reports.
•	Reporting options include individualized order error reports along with rolled up order error reports by organizational structures
•	Individual/Manager error reporting data in one repository thus allowing the user the need to access only one system.
•	Increases productivity by reducing the amount to time needed identifying order errors.   
•	Allows managers to monitor order error trends and plan accordingly to increase order accuracy.
Roles and Responsibilities :
	Preparation of Application Information document, Application specific project plan code flow document for all the modules.
	Doing Base Function Point count for the application.
	Interacting with Client’s SME to gain better understanding of the application architecture.
	Analyzing the existing design and feasibility of better implementation of modules.

6. 	Project Name: CALNET
Client	AT&T, U.S.A
Duration	Feb ’07 – Dec ‘08
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java, J2EE
Secondary skills: PL/SQL, Javascript
O/s: AIX
Enhancements done	Development and 2 Enhancements
Description :
CALNET is an application that supports billing system. It was a .NET application and because it fits in the business hierarchy of MAAL-D it was proposed to convert as a Java/J2EE application and integrate with MAALD.

Roles and Responsibilities :
	Designing own framework that suits existing environment.
	Developing API and classes for various design layers.
	Integrating web layer with the developed framework.
	Creation of scripts for software installation.



7. 	Project Name: MAALD
Client	AT&T, U.S.A
Duration	July ’06 – Jun ‘07
Environment	Primary skills: Core Java, J2EE.
Secondary skills: PL/SQL
O/s: AIX
Enhancements done	2 
Description :
The MAAL-D also called HM is an interface for the government accounts. The scope of hierarchy manager is to maintain a mapping of account key (MCN-SFX-GRC) to AHC (Agency Hierarchy Code) and make this data available to external systems that require a translation of MCN/SFX/GRC to AHC, or vice versa, as well as other pertinent information.  In addition, hierarchy manager aids in the establishment of account information in existing customer account applications.  A web interface allows designated users to establish, maintain and query AHC to account key mappings.
Rules and Responsibilities :
	Preparation of document of understanding for the modules assigned and working on developing the modules.  
	Create test scripts and scenarios.
	Quality Coordinator: Conducting LAM (Look Ahead meeting) and RCA (Root cause analysis) meeting. Analyzing the pattern of the defect and creating pareto-analysis and presenting it to the team to help them understand the areas of improvement.
	Interacting with the end users to solve Production Problem report.
	Analyzing the project using Function Point methodology which in turn justify the team‘s productivity.
	Creation of scripts to automate the process of archiving old logs and files.
	Creation of deployment scripts.


  


